src/pages/blog/2017-01-04-a-beginners-guide-to-brewing-with-chemex.md, before:

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: A beginners’ guide to brewing with Chemex
date: 2017-01-04T15:04:10.000Z
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: /img/chemex.jpg
description: Brewing with a Chemex probably seems like a complicated, time-consuming ordeal, but once you get used to the process, it becomes a soothing ritual that's worth the effort every time.
tags:
  - brewing
  - chemex
---
![chemex](/img/chemex.jpg)

This week we’ll **take** a look at all the steps required to make astonishing coffee with a Chemex at home. The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual, pour-over style glass-container coffeemaker that Peter Schlumbohm invented in 1941, and which continues to be manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts.

In 1958, designers at the [Illinois Institute of Technology](https://www.spacefarm.digital) said that the Chemex Coffeemaker is _"one of the best-designed products of modern times"_, and so is included in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.

## The little secrets of Chemex brewing

The Chemex Coffeemaker consists of an hourglass-shaped glass flask with a conical funnel-like neck (rather than the cylindrical neck of an Erlenmeyer flask) and uses proprietary filters, made of bonded paper (thicker-gauge paper than the standard paper filters for a drip-method coffeemaker) that removes most of the coffee oils, brewing coffee with a taste that is different than coffee brewed in other coffee-making systems; also, the thicker paper of the Chemex coffee filters may assist in removing cafestol, a cholesterol-containing compound found in coffee oils. Here’s three important tips newbies forget about:

1. Always buy dedicated Chemex filters.
2. Use a scale, don’t try to eyeball it.
3. Never skip preheating the glass.
4. Timing is key, don’t forget the clock.

The most visually distinctive feature of the Chemex is the heatproof wooden collar around the neck, allowing it to be handled and poured when full of hot water. This is turned, then split in two to allow it to fit around the glass neck. The two pieces are held loosely in place by a tied leather thong. The pieces are not tied tightly and can still move slightly, retained by the shape of the conical glass.

For a design piece that became popular post-war at a time of Modernism and precision manufacture, this juxtaposition of natural wood and the organic nature of a hand-tied knot with the laboratory nature of glassware was a distinctive feature of its appearance.

Commit message:

Update Blog “2017-01-04-a-beginners-guide-to-brewing-with-chemex”

src/pages/blog/2017-01-04-a-beginners-guide-to-brewing-with-chemex.md, after:

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Know Your Company
date: 2020-03-01T15:04:10.000Z
description: >-
  If you are an investor, you should know company you invest. I don't mean just
  their financial reports or business trends. Let's begin:
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: /img/photo-1444653614773-995cb1ef9efa.jpeg
tags:
  - increase
  - stock
---


![business](/img/photo-1444653614773-995cb1ef9efa.jpeg "business")

People often base their decision of investment on how the company is doing in current scenario. Their reserve, Earning per share, Book value etc plays keep important in making decision. And it's a good thing. Most of the people follow this strategy and most of them are happy with it and to be honest, it is safest way to manage your portfolio.

But things could go wrong. What about Nepal Investment bank on latest trend? The whole market is rallying bullishly but this one is not picking up the pace. 

Even though the company has massive reserve, good earning per share and book value, the company's stock is not preferred in market. What could be the reason?

The first thing would be the constant negative news that is entering the market. The recent controversies regarding real estate loan,   degrading performance each quarter are some of them. These have triggered massive supply of stock on the market that it is not being absorbed well.

Secondly, it is not picking up pace or to be exact is not able to. While other banks have gone far with partnering with new technologies and opening more branches, NIB is not doing much here.

So, apart from key ratios, I believe it is vital to watch on company's behavior on how it is evolving. As companies are distributing bonus share, it is diluting the value per share. In these scenarios, if the company does not make more profit than what they have given as dividend, the stock of company is likely to suffer.
